This is the Primary Outcomes Article for CTN-0049. Substance use is a major driver of the HIV epidemic and is associated with poor HIV care outcomes. Patient navigation (care coordination with case management) and the use of financial incentives for achieving predetermined outcomes are interventions increasingly promoted to engage patients in substance use disorders treatment and HIV care, but there is little evidence for their efficacy in improving HIV-1 viral suppression rates. This study aimed to assess the effect of a structured patient navigation intervention with or without financial incentives to improve HIV-1 viral suppression rates among patients with elevated HIV-1 viral loads and substance use recruited as hospital inpatients. From July 2012 - January 2014, 801 patients with HIV infection and substance use from 11 hospitals across the United States were randomly assigned to receive patient navigation alone (n=266), patient navigation plus financial incentives (n=271), or treatment as usual (n=264). HIV-1 plasma viral load was measured at baseline and at 6 and 12 months. Patient navigation included up to 11 sessions of care coordination with case management and motivational interviewing techniques over 6 months. Financial incentives (up to $1160) were provided for achieving targeted behaviors aimed at reducing substance use, increasing engagement in HIV care, and improving HIV outcomes. Treatment as usual was the standard practice at each hospital for linking hospitalized patients to outpatient HIV care and substance use disorders treatment.  The primary outcome was HIV viral suppression (less than or equal to 200 copies/mL) relative to viral nonsuppression or death at the 12-month follow-up. Of 801 patients randomized, 261 (32.6%) were women (mean [SD] age, 44.6 years [10 years]). There were no differences in rates of HIV viral suppression versus nonsuppression or death among the 3 groups at 12 months. Eighty-five of 249 patients (34.1%) in the usual-treatment group experienced treatment success compared with 89 of 249 patients (35.7%) in the navigation-only group, for a treatment difference of 1.6%, and compared with 98 of 254 patients (38.6%) in the navigation-plus-incentives group, for a treatment difference of 4.5%. The treatment difference between the navigation-only and navigation-plus-incentives group was -2.8%. Conclusions:  Among hospitalized patients with HIV infection and substance use, patient navigation with or without financial incentives did not have a beneficial effect on HIV viral suppression relative to nonsuppression or death at 12 months vs. treatment as usual. These findings do not support these interventions in this setting and indicate that other approaches are needed to improve HIV outcomes in this vulnerable population.