This is the primary outcomes article for CTN - 0030. No randomized trials have examined treatments for prescription opioid dependence, despite its increasing prevalence.The objective of this study, National Drug Abuse Treatment Clinical Trials Network protocol CTN - 0030 (Prescription Opioid Addiction Treatment Study(POATS)), was to evaluate the efficacy of brief and extended buprenorphine hydrochloride - naloxone hydrochloride treatment, with different counseling intensities, for patients dependent on prescription opioids. Ten US sites with a total of 653 treatment - seeking outpatients dependent on prescription opioids participated in this multisite, randomized clinical trial using a 2-phase adaptive treatment research design. Brief treatment (phase 1) included 2-week buprenorphine - naloxone stabilization, 2 - week taper, and 8 - week post - medication follow - up. Patients with successful opioid use outcomes exited the study;unsuccessful patients entered phase 2: extended(12 - week) buprenorphine - naloxone treatment, 4 - week taper, and 8 - week post - medication follow - up. In both phases, patients were randomized into standard medical management (SMM) or SMM plus opioid dependence counseling; all received buprenorphine - naloxone. During phase 1, only 6.6 % (43 of 653) of patients had successful outcomes, with no difference between SMM and SMM plus opioid dependence counseling. In contrast, 49.2 % (177 of 360) attained successful outcomes in phase 2 during extended buprenorphine - naloxone treatment(week 12),with no difference between counseling conditions. Success rates 8 weeks after completing the buprenorphine -naloxone taper(phase 2, week 24) dropped to 8.6 % (31 of 360), again with no counseling difference. In secondary analyses, successful phase 2 outcomes were more common while taking buprenorphine - naloxone than 8 weeks after taper(49.2 % vs 8.6 % , P < .001). Chronic pain did not affect opioid use outcomes;a history of ever using heroin was associated with lower phase 2 success rates while taking buprenorphine - naloxone. Conclusions: Prescription opioid & ndash;dependent patients are most likely to reduce opioid use during buprenorphine - naloxone treatment. However, if tapered off buprenorphine - naloxone, even after 12 weeks of treatment, the likelihood of an unsuccessful outcome is high, even in patients receiving counseling in addition to standard medical management.